
# Harpies

**Appearence**

Harpies are bipedal birdfolk, covered in coloured feathers. they are typically
between 1 metre to 1.5 metres tall. Harpies typically have glowing green or
blue eyes. their head grows a halo just above their forehead.  Harpy wings
connet from their back to their forearms extending out past the hand; this
often makes using items with their hands cumbersome. Harpies have hollow bones
allowing them to fly for a short duration. Harpies Wingspan is typically three
times their height sometimes a bit less.

**Origin**

Harpies were created by Ordun as the air roaming counterpart to humans. As a
result of this Harpies often are linked to heat and fire. it is said that the
harpies originally created by ordun have looked less primitive, scales as to
their current appearence; some speculate that this may be due to many Harpies
interbreeding with elves during the Second Age.


## Ancestry Bonuses

Maximum Health: +4
Poise: +2
Life Span: 35 years

**Limited Flight**

Tags: Alter Jog; Move 7;

You Move through the air ignoring the terrain underneath you, you must end this
action on an object or on the ground.

"Most fledglings learn to glide within 5 years. shortly after they learn a
rudimentary form of flight"

## Harpy Lineages

Harpies have three major lineages: Shrieker, Angel, and Earth-bound.

### Shrieker

**Lineage Differenciation**

Male Shriekers have purple or greenish white feathers that fade to black at the
tips. Their halo aren't fully closed, the inner and outer rims taper, forming a
sharp edge.

Female Shriekers have very muted brown feathers like the male counterpart their
feathers fade to black at the tips. Female have a fully closed halo, unlike
their male counterpart they halos are bulky and thick at the rims. As the halo
ages golden cracks reveal themselves.

**Haunting Shriek**

Tags: Action 1; Hostile; Range 3; Loud; Stagger 3; XP 5;

Release a terrifying shriek. Affect all creatures within range even allies.

"Our ancestors use these loud calls to relay information along large distances,
unfortunately the youngin's no longer make such beautiful sounds, nowadays they
are only loud enough to scare off the odd critters" -- quote from the book
'Harpies' written by Arz Mivel, where Mivel conducts an interview with an old
anonymous Shrieker.

### Earth-bound

**Lineage Differenciation**

Earth-bound harpies are larger than other types of harpies, typically between
1.3 to 1.5 metres tall. Earth-bound harpies have very short wings incapable of
letting them fly. often seen as less than other lineages Earth-bound harpies
are often treated badly by their kinsmen.

**Lineage Bonuses:**

Maximum Health +3;
Poise +3;
Life Span: 50 years


**Flightless**

Tags: Enhancment; Debility;

You lose access to your Limited Flight Ancestry ability. You can wear all
armour.

"Unlike the rest of our kind, we earth-bound harpies aren't blessed with the
flight; I most of all, envy this about our kindred." -- quote from the book
'Harpies' written by Arz Mivel, where Mivel reflects on her own lineage.


**Ruffled Feathers**

Tags: XP 5; Enhancement; Protection +5;

you only gain the benefits of this ability when you have taken damage in this
combat encounter.

"I often seen Harpies get into scuffles... a big one flicked their feathers
up as a makeshift cushion when punched square in the jaw." -- Arz Mivel
Personal Diary.

**Lost Song**

Tags: XP 5; Enhancement;

You hum a brief five note tune, the next Society checks relating to Harpy,
Human or Elven culture automatically score 1 success.

"I don't recall ever learning this tune from our elders." -- Arz Mivel's
Personal Dairy.

### Angel
**Lineage Differenciation**
Angel Harpies, unlike other harpies, angels have human like hands, instead
their wings extrude from there back, this allows them to use their hands while
flying or hovering.

**Lineage Bonuses:**

Paximum Health -2;
Poise -1;
Life Span: 30 years;

**Angel's Wings**
Tags: Require Limited Flight; Enhancement;

After you Move using Limited Flight, perform a ability with the tag Action 1
the action cannot be an Extender.


