
# Core Definitions
## Characters

Characters are sentient creatures controlled by Players that are not summoned
creatures or familiars. Characters interact with the world the Game Master
creates.

## Creatures

Creatures are living or formerly living beings controlled by the Game Master or
Players. These Creatures have personalities, ethics, and preferences. Creatures
can see and hear things around them.

## Dice

in this game system, a set of six twelve-sided polyhedral dice (more commonly
refered to as d12s) are used. Only the players roll dice. Dice are used in
Checks to determine the outcome of effects.

## Checks

Checks are used as a resolution mechanic that uses skills or attributes to
determine the outcome of a challenging task. Some tasks do not need a character
to roll a check as they are trivially difficult and game masters should avoid
forcing characters to roll for simple tasks when possible.

To make a Checks, roll multiple dice, note down how many successes and fumbles
the check scored.

### Fumbles

A Fumble is a result of 1 on a d12, each fumble you score removes one success.

### Success

A Success is a result of a 7 or higher on a d12.

### Critical Success

A Critical success is a result of a 12 on a d12. this counts as two successes.

## Check Difficulty

The gamemaster sets a difficulty for a check before the character rolls a
check. The gamemaster can set the difficulty of a check to require 1 to 6
successes to complete based on the players circumstances. Circumstances that
may affect how many success are required include time and pressure. The less
time the character has to perform the task increases the checks difficulty
likewise the more critical the check is the harder it is to perform.

An example of a low difficulty check would include picking a lock with ample
time to fiddle arround with the pins. The gamemaster may set the difficulty to
require 1 success on the check.

An example of a high difficulty check would include picking a lock while being
moments away from being caught by a monster; the gamemaster may set the
difficulty to require 3 or 4 successes on the check.


## Inventory

Each Creature that can carry items has an Inventory, the Inventory reperesents
anything from a backpack to comically deep pockets; it's shape and size doesn't
matter. Creatures usually have 12 Spaces in their Inventory. by default a
single Item use up 2 Inventory Spaces.

## Items

Items are tangible objects of any size that are not alive, sentient or
possessed by a creature. Items have a Base Value, the base value determines how
much the item costs to craft and how much it costs to purchase at character
creation.

Items have an Upkeep Cost, The upkeep cost is paid at the start of a Downtime
period. cost can be paid in crafting materials of any legal regional Currency.
if you do not pay the price you will not be able to use the item until you do.

The Prices of items can fluctuated based on in world events and stocks, the
Game Master can set the price of items as they see fit so long as it is within
reason.

## Tags

Tags are used to represent common mechanics and are written before the main
bock of text. Tags Explain the core mechanics of an action, item, or ability.
The list of tags can be found in the tags section.

## Modes

There are three Mode that Characters can partake in at a given time: Combat,
Investigation, and Downtime. Some actions can only be performed during specific
modes, however most actions aren't limited to a specific mode.

## Effects

Effects are temporary changes that occur to your character; these changes can
impact you positively or negatively. Effects do not compound on each other. If
you have two or more instances of an effect, you take the more impactful
effect.

## Health

Health reperesents how close a creture is to dying. when your health reaches 0
your character dies; when this happens, the gamemaster may set aside some time
in the next Downtime segement to morn the character's death and to make a new
character.

## Structure

Structure represents the creature's resiliance to being knocked over or stunned.

## Attributes
Attributes define a Creature's base properties. Attributes are divided into
two categories: Psychic and Physical. Each Attribute has a Rank ranging from 0
to 6, which doesn't change after character/monster creation.

### Vitality

Vitality refers to how much damage your character can take, and how resiliant
you are to status buildup.

### Agility

Agility refers to how fast your character perform actions, your maximum speed,
damage with Agility weapons and evasion.

### Strength

Strength refers to how much items your character can carry, damage with
Strength weapons and Stagger Resiliance.


### Attunment

Attunement refers to your character's link to magic, spirits and magical items.

### Capacity

Capacity refers to your character's stored quantity of magical energy, and how
resiliant you are to magical effects.

## Skills

Skills are specific areas of your character's knowledge, and experiences. These
are used to perform various tasks and overcome obstacles. Each Skill has a Rank
ranging from 0 to 6.

### Occultism

Occultism refers to your character's study of magic through local tradition,
hexes, and rituals.

### Sorcery

Sorcery refers to your character's study of magic through rigerous
experimentation, magical theory and formation of magical runes.

### Technology

Technology refers to your character's study of various methods of creating
items, to assist in various tasks.

### Society

Society refers to your character's study of various cultures and societies.

### Discovery

Discovery refers to your character's ability to find rare objects, bonus
Experience gain and bonus to status ailment application.


### Medicine

Medicine refers to your Character's ability to tend to wounds and apply various
status recovery items.

### Combat

Combat refers to your character's ability to use Weapons, Armour, and Tactics.


### Crafting

Crafting refers to yoru character's ability to use tools to create items.


