# Items

Below is an list of items and item categories each category describes what
kinds of items are in it.

## Consumable Items

Consumable items are items that once used become unusable, some Consumables
have multiple Charges that allow you to use them a number of times before
expiring.

### Food

food are consumables that provide nurishment to creatures.

**Ration bag**

Tags: Light; Charges 3; Cleanse Hungry;

This rope-tied spotted blanket contains 3 metal tins of asortment dried fruit,
dried beef, and hardtack. Each tin has a balanced assortment of produce. Ration
bags are made by the Melkar clergy; these traveling warrior monks learned
various methods to perserving food in order to spread their beliefs around
Ryhern.

**Meal**

Tags: Charges 1; Soothing 1; Cleanse Hungry;

Base Value: 250qt

**Blood**

Tags: Charges 1; Cleanse Thirst;

Blood while often red can appear in various colors. Elves and Orcs pump black
blood through their vains, a signiture of Yelm's lineage. Old Tales often
portray blood as a curse, branding most with mortality. Bloodless creatures are
worshiped in dark corners of Ryhern.


### Medical items

medical items are used to recover from conditions and to bolster oneself
instantly.

**Medkit**

Tags: Charges 3; Two-Handed; Cleanse [Bleeding, Burning, Poisoned];

Base Value: 400qt

Cleanse any one of the Conditions per Charge used.

A set of first aid tools, often used by Malkar clergymen to relieve ailments.
The medkit includes a sealed letter from the local archbishop, a blessing
for hard times.

**Bandage**

Tags: One-Handed; Charges 1; Cleanse Bleeding;

A scrap of a cloth, blessed in the water's of lake Iro. Lake Iro was said to
have been touched by Malkar himself; the lake's soothing warm waters close up
wounds rapidly. It is said that Malkar's ever bleeding hand has been wrapped
with similar looking rags.

**Antidote**

Tags: One-Handed; Charges 1; Cleanse Poisoned;

Base Value: 100qt

A dark green liquid in a corked vial, its lower half has been wrapped tightly
in a white snake skin. the green liquid contains harvested venom antibodies and
other medicinal herbs produced by the Belentine people of the Salettes
mountains. Snakes skins were used as vessels for these medicinal
tonics in ancient times.

**Burn Salve**

Tags: One-Handed; Charges 1; Cleanse Burning;

Base Value: 100qt

a thick salve made with animal fats and medicinal herbs often stored in bronze
tins. The origin of this salve is unknown; most scolars attribute it's creation
to long forgotten tribes in to the Northern Isles however the validity of these
claims are desputed by some.


## Repairable Items

Repaireable items have an upkeep cost to maintain them.

