# Mode Rules

in this section you can find Modes for rules and mechanics related to them.

## Timeframe

Timeframe is important for effects, abilities and various other mechanics.
below you will find Refer to the below for further information:


| Mode               | Time Per Round |
|--------------------|----------------|
| Combat Mode        | 3 seconds      |
| Investigation Mode | 10 minutes     |
| Downtime Mode      | 1 Hour         |

## Common actions

below is a list of actions that can be used in any mode.

**Cancel**

Cancel a Delay or Concentrate action.

**Make noise**

Tags: Range Varies; Loud;

to make a audible noise that will cause creatures to investigate your current
location.

**speak**

Tags: Loud;

You attempt to speak or call to a creature. depending on the nature of your
talk with the creature the Game Master. rollplay out the interaction.

**Assist**

Tags: Range Varies; Roleplay;

you attempt to assist a creature. Roleplay the interaction, they add 1
additional dice to their check if you successfully help them out.

**Interact**

Tags: Range Adjacent;

to use an item or object.

## Combat Mode

Players enter Combat mode whenever they are in immediate danger of being
attacked by creatures. typically the Players goal is to primarily survive the
encounter by any means possible however more nuanced goals may be set by the
Game Master, such as protecting a structure or holding off intruders while a
portal opens. once the threat is dealt with, you Switch Into Downtime or
Investigation Mode.

Everything happens at the same time. Creatures can spend 5 Stamina to perform
actions on each turn.

at the start if each Round, each Creature specifies what its going to be doing
and reduce their Stamina by the specified cost. after everyone has specified
what they are going to be doing, the game master evalulates the scene, allowing
people to roll checks and damage if nessisary.

### Combat Mode actions

Below is a list of commonly used actions in combat mode.

**Improvise**

Tags: Stamina Varies; Roleplay;

Discribe how you would like to do something, Roleplay out the interaction if
needed, your Game master decideds how much stamina it will cost to use and any
other resources and if you need to roll any checks.


**Defend**

Tags: Protection 10; Range Near; Move;

you gain Protection and position yourself Adjacent to the Target. defending it
from incoming attacks until the start of your next turn.


**Sneak**

Tags: Stamina 1; Range Near; Move; Enhancement;

you move yourself in any direction without making a sound.

**Jog**

Tags: Range Near; Move;

you move yourself in any direction.

**Take cover**

Tags: Protection 1d12;

**Throw object**

Tags: Hostile; Range Near; Damage Varies;

You throw an item at a target, roll a Check if you score a success, cause an
effect depending on the item.

**Distract**

Tags: Range Near; Distracted;

**Disarm**

Tags: Range Near; Stamina 1; Hostile; Disarm X;

## Investigation Mode

Investigation Mode typically the Players goal is to complete gigs, learn
information and interact Players enter Investigation mode whenever they intend
to interact, explore or investigate an area. with creatures.

In Investigation mode Characters explore areas of intrest. Investigation mode
works similar to Combat Mode using, players communicate and declare what
actions they will perform, than once everyone has decided their actions,
everything is evaluated by the Game Master.

Characters can perform up to 3 actions on their Turn. In Investigation mode you
can perform actions that cost Stamina but not vice versa.

### Investigation Mode actions

**Identify**

Tags Investigation; Check Veries; Research;

and declare that you wish to identify a object, creature or place, you make an
appropriate Skill Check. The Game Master describes what you learn based on your
the result.

**Seek**

Tags: Investigation; Check Varies; Radius Small;

to search a space Roll a Skill Check associated with what you are searching
for. Your Game Master dictates what you find.

**Respite**

Tags: Investigation;

Regain half of your maximum Stamina (rounded up). after regaining Stamina, you
are unable to Respite for 1 Hour.

## Downtime Mode

Players enter downtime mode to rest, train, recover from wounds, buy items,
craft items and partake in entertainment activities. In downtime mode you spend
you consume 1 food per 4 Hours. you can only perform Downtime activities in
civilized areas or at a camp. Travel in downtime mode is done on a hexegonal
grid where moving from 1 tile to another takes 4 hours of travel. if you
haven't slept after 20 Hours you become Tired.

### Downtime specific activities

below is a list of the downtown exclusive activities you can do.

**Setup Camp**

Tags: Roleplay; Group; Hours 8; you and at least one companion set up a
makeshift camp. you can perform other downtime activities while outside of
civilization.

**Rest**

Tags: Hours 4; Enhancement; Cleanse Hunger;

you rest up doing activities related to your lifestyle. You consume a total of
2 Charges of any Food, You remove any Debility other than Exhausted from your
character.

**Sleep**

Tags: Hours 8; Cleanse Exhausted;

you must sleep after performing 12 hours of activities or you became Exhausted.

**Train**

Tags: Roleplay; ; Hours 8;

You train yourself in a set of skills; make a Psyche Check to see how
much Progress you makes. if you do not gain Enough Progress on your training in
one sesion, Scribe down how much Progress you made towards learning for future
reference.

**Research**

Tags: Roleplay; Check Varies; Hours 8;

You research topics, items or substance, make a Skill Check related to the
topic you are researching, you make progress equal to the number of Successes
you score.

**Travel**

Tags: Roleplay; Group; Hours Varies;

move to an adjacent Hex tile. you typically travel for 4 hours but the game
master may increase or decrease the hours spent traveling if they wish.

**Trade**

Tags: Roleplay; Hours 1;

if there is a Vendor, Roleplay out an interaction of you Trading goods;

**Craft/Repair**

Tags: Check Science; Hours 4;

You Craft 1 Item,

You repair 1 Item, use up one Smithingstone of the appropriate Rank.

