# Tags rules

Tags are special shorthand phrases that describe core mechanics.

## Social

### Illigal

This item action or activity will attract law enforcement if used/shown in
public.

### Prestige

This item is only used by people of high social status.

## Resource Tags

### XP X

This feature requires you to spend X experience on it to unlock it.
if this tag is beside an Encounter, you gain X experience.

### Hours X

you spend X Hours to complete the activity.

## Interaction Tags

### Check X

You are required to make a X Check.

### Roleplay

this item or ability involves roleplaying an interaction. you may be given
bonuses depending on
how well you roleplay the interaction.

### Group

The whole party must contribute to this activity for it to be finished.

## Perseption Tags

### Loud

Makes a lot of noise attracting attention to a location specified in the text
on use. if you are within within Range 5 you become Deafened.

### Silent

Makes no noise, doesn't attract any attention.

### Visible

can be seen easily by anyone looking in right place.

### Hidden

cannot be seen easily; requires you to Search a location to find it.

### Exposed

easy to target, you automatically succeed on any action against this target.

### Obscured

hard to target, requires you to to make an Aptitude check before being able to
target it.

## Basic Tags

below are a list of all the basic tags.

### Range X

Target a creature, a object, or a space within X metres.

### Clense X

remove the X status condition from a target.

## Combat Focused Tags

### Reaction X
you spend  X Reactions to use this in combat mode.

### Action X

you spend X actions to use this in combat mode.

### Heal X

Increase a targets current Health by X.

### Hurt X

Reduce a targets current Health by X.

### Stagger X

Reduce a targets Poise by X.

### Protection X

Reduce Damage recieved by the target by X. Multiple sources of this Tag stack
cumulatively.

### Move X

you are displace X metres from your current position, the direction is
specified by the text.

### Shove X

you move a creature or object X metres from its current position, the length and
direction is specified by the text.

### Sunder X

Reduces the target's Protection by X.

### Piercing

Ignore Protection when dealing damage.

### End

this Tag Ends your turn early, you cannot perform actions after using a feature
with this tag.

## Item Tags

### One-Handed

you can use 1 hand to use this item.

### Two-handed

you can use 2 hands to use this item.

### Thrown

you can throw this item without much effort.

### Concealed

you can hide this item easily on your character.

### Compact

this item take up 1 Inventory slots.

### Bulky

this item take up 3 Inventory slots.

### Consumable

this item is destroyed upon use.

### Charge X

you can use this item X times before before needing to recharge or repairing
the item.

### Equipment

This item can be worn on yourself. It takes up 1 less Inventory when you are
wearing it.

## Ability Tags

### Conditional X

this Tag specifies that X only happens when a certain conditon is met.

### Require X

This Tag specifies that X is required to use or perform this item, action,
activity or ability.

### Alter X

this feature, item or ability Changes X, it shares the same Tags as X unless
they are overwritten by its own Tags. Additional alterations are described in
in it's text.

### Ignore X

Ignore Specifies another Tag X, Treat the feature as if X wasn't on it. Ignore
is typically used in tandom with Alter to remove Tags on an existing feature.

### Debility

Cause a target to suffer a negitive Effect. the Effect is specified by the
Text's body.

### Enhancement

Grant a target a positive Effect. the Effect is specified by the Text's body.

### Hostile

this action is treated as a hostile action and can trigger combat if used in
Investigation mode.

### Downtime

This action or ablilty can only be used in Downtime mode.

### Investigation

This action or ablilty can only be used in Investigation mode.

## Category Tags

Category Tags are used to encompass various mechanics that have similar
properties.

### Stance

Stances are special forms of combat that allow the user to  use Maneuvers.
Using this ability changes your basic combat features as described in the text.
You can choose to leave a Stance as by spending an Action otherwise you remain
in the Stance until your Poise is reduced to 0 or until you change to a
Different Stance.

### Maneuver

Maneuvers are special moves that are only availible in a specific stance
specified in the text.

### Flameable

Easily destroyed by when heat is applied.

### Fire

Interacts with Flameable objects, cause Fleeing 1 on Instinctual Creatures.

### Toxic

if a creature has Sickened before being subjected to the effects of this tag,
increase that Sickened tag by 1. this tag has it has no effect on targets with
the Construct tag.

## Status Effects Tags

below is a list of Status effects that are used in the tabletop game.

### Marked X

Increase the effectivness of certain abilities by X when used against you.

### Magebane X

Reduce the Hurt tag on your Spells by X for all attacks.

### Disarmed X

Reduce the Hurt tag on your Weapons by X for all attacks.

### Slowed X

Reduce the Move tag on abilities by X.

### Quickened X

Increase the Move tag on abilities by X.

### Hungry X

You are hungry, you cannot regain health you must consume X food to remove this
condition.

### Impaired X

You reduce the number of dice you roll on Checks that target creatures or objects by X.

### Stunned X

you reduce your Poise by X.

### Sickened X

Reduce your Maximum and Current Health by X.

### Hindered X

Reduce your Agility by X Ranks.

### Thinblood X

Reduce your Vitality by X Ranks.

### Dissonance X

Reduce your Attunement by X Ranks.

### Drained X

Reduce your Capacity by X Ranks.

### Weakened X

Reduce your Strength by X Ranks.

### Exhausted X

you must sleep for 8 hours to remove 1 Exhausted stack. you cannot perform
abilities that take 6 - X  or more actions to perform.

### Fleeing X

you must spend an action to move X spaces in a straight line away from whatever
has applied this condition to you.

